Update background YLD strategy after discussing with Patrick (#1308)
ihmeuw/vivarium_research: docs/source/models/causes/other_causes/index.rst

Disease Overview
----------------

For a discussion of the importance of modeling background morbidity, see the :ref:`background morbidity page <other_causes_ylds>`. 

Vivarium Modeling Strategy
--------------------------

Scope
+++++

> This cause model document existing as an intermim solution to these issues specific discussed in the :ref:`background morbidity page <other_causes_ylds>`, specifically designed for the :ref:`nutrition optimization pregnancy model <2021_concept_model_vivarium_nutrition_optimization_pregnancies>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This cause model document serves as an interim solution to these issues specific discussed in the :ref:`background morbidity page <other_causes_ylds>`, specifically designed for the :ref:`nutrition optimization pregnancy model <2021_concept_model_vivarium_nutrition_optimization_pregnancies>`.
```

> This cause model document existing as an intermim solution to these issues specific discussed in the :ref:`background morbidity page <other_causes_ylds>`, specifically designed for the :ref:`nutrition optimization pregnancy model <2021_concept_model_vivarium_nutrition_optimization_pregnancies>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This cause model document serves as an interim solution to the issues discussed in the :ref:`background morbidity page <other_causes_ylds>`, specifically designed for the :ref:`nutrition optimization pregnancy model <2021_concept_model_vivarium_nutrition_optimization_pregnancies>`.
```

     - 
   * - C
     - excess mortality rate
     - 0
     - 
   * - C
     - disabilty weight

>      - :math:`YLDs_{c294} - YLDs_{r192} - (YLDs_{c366} - YLDs_{s182,s183,s184}) + \frac{YLD_{c366} - YLDs_{\text{s182,s183,s184}}}{\text{preg_rate}}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - :math:`YLDs_{c294} - YLDs_{r192} - (YLDs_{c366} - YLDs_{\text{s182,s183,s184}}) * (1 + \frac{1}{\text{preg_rate}})`
```

Note: I'm just mechanically simplifying here. I don't actually understand this equation. I would have guessed that the equation would be this:

```
YLDs_{c294} - YLDs_{r192} - (YLDs_{c366} - YLDs_{\text{s182,s183,s184}}) / preg_rate
```

Author: I'll break down what's happening here: 
- YLDs_{c294} # start with population all cause YLD rate that we assume to generalize to the pregnant population
- - YLDs_{r192} # subtract anemia YLDs that we assume generalizes to the pregnant population
- - (YLDs_{c366} - YLDs_{\text{s182,s183,s184}}) # subtract off _population level_ maternal disorders YLD rate excluding maternal disorders YLD sequelae that overlap with anemia (we don't want to subtract off these sequelae twice!). We're subtracting the population level maternal disorders YLD rate and will add back the pregnancy-specific maternal disorder YLD rate in the next step
- + \frac{YLD_{c366} - YLDs_{\text{s182,s183,s184}}}{\text{preg_rate}} # now we are adding back in the maternal disorder YLD rate, but adjusted up to be specific to the pregnant population by dividing by the incidence rate of pregnancy 

Does this clarify what's happening here?

Author: Basically s182,s183,s184 are anemia due to maternal hemorrhage, so these sequelae are included in both YLDs due to anemia impairment and YLDs due to the maternal disorders cause. We decided that we will count them as part of the anemia impairment rather than the maternal disorders cause, so we always subtract them off of YLDs_c366

Reviewer 2: Thanks! Your update makes this much more clear 👍

     - See extended note below

.. note::

  Note that we are assuming the YLD rate due to all causes other than maternal disorders (including YLDs due to anemia) do not significantly vary between the pregnant/postpartum not pregnant/postpartum populations. We do rescale the rate of maternal disorders from the general population of women of reproductive age to the rate among the pregnant/postpartum population in this equation. 

>   Note that we include YLDs due to maternal disorders in the disability weight of "background morbidity" here despite the fact that maternal disorders is included as a cause of disability within the nutrition optimization pregnancy simulation. This is because in the simulation, simulants acquire pre-COMO-adjusted maternal disorders YLDs over the course of a single timestep in which accumulation of YLDs due to all other causes besides maternal disorders is paused. Therefore, since maternal disorders YLDs are not accumulated during the remainder of the simulation when anemia YLDs are accumulated, anemia YLDs would not be adjusted for comorbidity with maternal disorders unless they were included in the disability weight for background morbidity, which will be present during the timesteps for which anemia YLDs are accumulated

Reviewer: I don't understand this!  Let's talk it through.

Reviewer 3: I am also confused about this and would appreciate chatting through it.

Reviewer 2: I'm interested as well! I think I kind of follow this, but I'm unclear why it doesn't matter that we are double-counting maternal disorders YLDs overall. And also, it seems like you would have the reverse problem as well: that the maternal disorders YLDs accumulated while everything is paused are not adjusted for those other things.

Author: 1. We will double-count maternal disorders in the estimate of the total YLD rate in the simulation. However, we only ever really evaluate YLDs _averted_ between scenarios and we will only avert maternal disorders YLDs that occur during the parturition state and the maternal disorders YLDs in the background morbidity will not change, so we will not double count YLDs averted which is really what we are trying to get right.
2. How we are modeling YLDs due to maternal disorders is by taking the already COMO adjusted YLD rate and converting that to a "disability weight" rather than calculating YLDs from a DW directly. Therefore, the maternal disorders YLDs are already COMO adjusted and don't need to be adjusted additionally.

I'll try to add some of this context to the doc to make this more clear!

Reviewer 2: 1. Ah, I thought it was something like that. I assume we don't need to report anything like YLDs averted as a proportion of total YLDs? And do we report DALYs in this sim? It seems like we'd slightly change the balance between YLLs averted and YLDs averted here (i.e. averting a death isn't as good if people accumulate more YLDs per unit time). Probably no big deal even if so; just trying to understand the consequences of this double-count.
2. I see! So, we have the same slight limitation going both directions: our YLDs due to anemia aren't taking into account that we have averted some maternal disorders, and our YLDs due to maternal disorders aren't taking into account that we have averted some anemia. Have I got that right?

Author: 1. Oh, good point, I hadn't fully though through that impacting the balance between YLLs and YLDs averted that you mention there. I am not sure if the (a) influence of COMO adjusting anemia YLDs for maternal disorders or (b) influence of this issue you just raised will be more influential on our results. For this specific model, simulants only live for 6 weeks past their averted death date (they can only die at birth) after spending ~35 weeks or so before birth while they can experience anemia. So I'm thinking that given there will be a pretty small period to accumulate YLDs following death that I would rather capture the COMO adjustment for anemia appropriately. Let me know if you disagree!
2. Yes, exactly!

I think I merged this prematurely to note these additional nuances! I will follow-up to get them included in the write-up.
